add_index nachschauen

mail validierung - done
eigene kommentare löschen - done
mails beim anmelden schicken - done?
anstatt profile den namen angeben - done
login -> home - done 
user liste nur für admin - done
captcha - done
fav posts als menu punkt - done
benutzer können blog einträge speichern - done
user profil mehr details - done
link zum profil bei den kommentaren ist nur für die admins sichtbar - done 
bild hochladen - done
Friendlist für users - done 
icons (andere fragen ob vorhanden) - http://fortawesome.github.com/Font-Awesome/ - done
user ein default bild geben - done
user detail table stylen - done
thumb-avatar bei den commentaren anzeigen lassen - done
age in geburtsdatum umwandeln - done
freischaltung durch bestätigung der mail - done (?)
freischaltung des friend requests über e-mail - done (?)
Auf dem Profil das Alter und nicht das Datum anzeigen. - done
post auf home und bei comments in eine partial tun - done


user hat mehrere hobbies - datenbankeintrag anlegen

admins können user zu admins befördern
logik der gespeicherten feeds aus html in ruby/rails auslagern
css reforgen

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
zum benutzen muss libmagickwand-dev (auf ubuntu) installiert sein,
um rmagick zu benutzen (sudo apt-get install libmagickwand-dev)

Assuming given the title that you definitely want to avoid Devise, Authlogic and friends, here's what I think you need to do:

    Create 'confirmation code' and 'confirmed' attributes in your user model.
    Create a new controller method on your user controller that expects a user id and confirmation code, looks up the user, checks the code in te parameter matches the code stored in the DB and if so clears the code and sets confirmed = true.
    Create a route that maps e.g. /users/1/confirm/code to your new controller method.
    Create an ActionMailer template for the e-mail you want to send. This should accept a user as a parameter, and use the confirmation code of the user to send a mail containing a link to your new route.
    Create an observer for your user model. If the record is created or the e-mail address modified, then generate a random confirmation code, set it into the model and clear the confirmed flag. Then trigger your ActionMailer.
    Create a helper method which allows views to check if the current use is confirmed.
    Use this method to enable/disable functionality as appropriate. Remember to protect your controller methods as appropriate as well as your view logic.


für random confirmation code SecureRandom.hex(z) benutzen (z für anzhl (z = 1 entspricht 2 char, z = 2 entspricht 4 chars, z = 4 entspricht 8 chars usw.))

http://railscasts.com/episodes/206-action-mailer-in-rails-3
http://railsapps.github.com/rails-send-email.html